---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Seeing the World in Triangles"
excerpt: "Three is a magic number."
date:   2023-08-07 08:00:00
mathjax: false
---

This pattern somewhat always amazed me, as if anything can be decomposed into three components. As if the vector space of universe definitions is R^3.

What I often find myself doing when trying to understand something, is decomposing it into its three most basic things. This number has a mysterious embedding.

### Examples:

- Proportional, Integral, and Derivative (PID) controller that’s very popular and works very well with linear systems.
- The RGB dimensions represent any color.
- The attention mechanism of the Transformer is made up of three fundamental components: Key, Value, and Query. (This makes me very bullish that in fact, attention is all we need for AGI)
- The GPS uses three points to triangulate locations.
- The human body can be described as being made up of the muscular system, skeletal system, and nervous system.
- The foundation of Boolean logic consists of three basic operations - AND, OR, and NOT.
- Many economic models are based on three agents - firms, households, and government.
- The structure of DNA consists of three components - a phosphate group, a sugar group, and a nitrogenous base. Also, the genetic code is based on triplets of nucleotides (codons).
- The universe is made up of three types of subatomic particles - protons, neutrons, and electrons.
- Projects are often evaluated based on three constraints - scope, time, and cost
